---
layout: researchpost
title: Classification of Sleep Stage and Cataplexy in Narcoleptic Mice using Supervised and Unsupervised Machine Learning
date: 2020-12-31 00:02:00
description: I. Exarchos, A. A. Rogers, L. M. Aiani, R. E. Gross, G. D. Clifford, N. P. Pedersen and J. T. Willie
tags: 
categories: research
---

[[SLEEP2020]](https://doi.org/10.1093/sleep/zsz272)


{% include figure.html path="assets/img/SLEEP1.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
{% include figure.html path="assets/img/SLEEP2.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
{% include figure.html path="assets/img/SLEEP3.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}  

We optimize two machine-learning approaches, supervised and unsupervised, for automated scoring of behavioral states in orexin/ ataxin-3 transgenic mice, a validated model of narcolepsy type 1, and additionally test them on wild-type mice. For the supervised approach, we employ a deep convolutional neural network architecture that is trained on expert-labeled segments of wake, non-REM sleep, and REM sleep in EEG/EMG time series data. The resulting trained classifier is then used to infer on the labels of previously unseen data. For the unsupervised approach, we leverage data dimensionality reduction and clustering techniques. Both approaches successfully score EEG/EMG data, achieving mean accuracies of 95% and 91%, respectively, in narcoleptic mice, and accuracies of 93% and 89%, respectively, in wild-type mice. This work is, to the best of our knowledge, the first set of algorithms created to specifically identify pathological sleep in narcoleptic mice. Currently available sleep-scoring algorithms are trained on wild-type animals with normal sleep/wake behavior and exhibit low accuracies for scoring pathological sleep. Therefore, this set of tools can greatly facilitate and expedite behavioral-state-scoring in narcoleptic mice, and thus is a valuable asset for sleep research labs.  

This work has been published in SLEEP.
